[Applause]
if you have
problems with falling asleep listening
to a recording with the sounds of bacon
being fried might help
lots of people insist that it works even
better than white noise apps
they claim this soundscape helps to calm
down relax
and fall asleep faster you can even find
an 8-hour long video of bacon snapping
crackling and popping in a pan for a
full night
healthy rest the only remaining question
is
aren't you going to wake up bacon hungry
get yourself a weighted blanket
studies claim a snuggly blanket makes
you feel comfortable and secure
by touching certain points on your body
it makes your brain release serotonin
one of the chemicals that regulates
sleep if sleep keeps avoiding you
hum like a bee all you need to do is
inhale
and hum on the exhale it's called bumble
bee breath
sleep experts say it calms your mind and
helps you get rid of negative emotions
warning this technique may irritate
those who are trying to catch some z's
next to you try squeezing your muscles
tensing up is unlikely to lull you to
sleep but when you relax your muscles
afterward
it can do the trick lie down and find a
comfortable position
focus on some part of your body for
example
your hands squeeze your fingers then
release
move up to your wrists forearms elbows
and so on
soon your breathing will become deeper
and you'll doze off
plunge your face in a bowl with ice cold
water
at first it might shock you even more
awake than you are
but after that it'll reset your nervous
system
freezing water will trigger a reaction
that will lower your blood pressure
and heart rate relaxed and refreshed
you'll be ready for bed
put your clock away if you can't fall
asleep
checking the time will only add to your
stress this will make it even harder
to calm down your nervous system and
fall asleep
either take your clock out of the room
or cover it up
and don't cheat by checking the time on
your smartphone
if you're tossing and turning unable to
fall asleep
try putting a pillow under your knees it
will support your body
helping you relax into the mattress and
your lower back will have its natural
curve
if you sleep on your side place a pillow
between your knees
this will keep your spine and hips
aligned
if you're the lucky owner of a rocking
chair sit in it and close your eyes
keep rocking for a few minutes and
you're likely to rock yourself to sleep
drink a mug of spiced milk before going
to bed
add nutmeg cardamom cinnamon ginger
and other spices to heated milk and
drink it three hours after your last
meal
you're likely to fall asleep much faster
do everything you can to stay awake it's
called the sleep paradox
you lie down in your bed your eyes wide
open
say i will not fall asleep again and
again experts claim that your brain is
bad at processing negatives
that's why it'll interpret your chant as
an instruction
to sleep or you can try to force your
brain to stay awake
until you finish watching an episode of
some tv show on your phone
prop the gadget up on a pillow next to
you and tell yourself you won't drift
off
usually when you're halfway through it
your head starts to feel too comfortable
you end up listening to the show instead
of watching it and it's likely to put
you to sleep
when you can't fall asleep no matter
what try relocating
switching to another couch or bed might
be enough to help you relax
if you don't have an extra sleeping
place you can turn around
so that your head is at the foot of the
bed this might surprise your body into
drifting off
you can use some warmed up soothing oils
the most effective ones will be sesame
oil in the winter and spring
and coconut oil in the summer you can
put it on your feet
the backs of your ears or even the top
of your head
if you have nothing against crawling
into bed with oily hair
replay your day in reverse think about
what you had for dinner
how you got home from work what happened
on the way how you spent your afternoon
recollecting the tiniest details is
usually boring enough to make you doze
off
if you decide to nap during the day
don't let it last
longer than 20 minutes otherwise your
alarm will catch you in the deep stages
of sleep
you'll feel groggy after waking up and
won't be able to fall asleep
easily at night tell yourself a story
it works on adults too choose a genre
you like
sci-fi mystery romance in rem
sleep you have dreams based on your life
story
if you put your brain into storytelling
mode before bed
it'll decide it's time to sleep this
will make your body relax
try the 478 breathing technique
inspired by yoga it helps your nervous
system relax
exhale through your mouth so that you
make a push
sound then inhale softly through your
nose
mentally counting to four hold your
breath
count to seven and exhale in one large
lasting for eight seconds
[Music]
you can also try box breathing breathe
in deeply while counting to four
then hold your breath for four counts
and breathe out as slowly as you can
also for four counts after that count to
four
yes again before breathing in deeply
you might be unable to fall asleep
because you have too many thoughts
running in circles in your mind
it usually leads to extra stress and
anxiety
if you can relate to this make it a
habit to write down
positive things that happen during the
day before you go to bed
it might downgrade stressful events lift
your mood
and help you relax researchers are sure
that people who smell
lavender before going to bed or during
the night have fewer problems with sleep
you can light a scented candle or put a
real thing in your bedroom
and see if it works for you if after
lying in bed for quite some time
you still can't fall asleep get up
this way you can do something useful
instead of desperately staring at your
ceiling
as specialists say if you're in bed you
sleep
if you don't sleep you get out of bed
and if you can't decide what you should
do so late at night
blow some soap bubbles this activity
resembles a deep breathing exercise
it can easily take your mind off anxious
pre-bedtime
thoughts put on socks
when you start warming up your cold feet
your blood vessels become wider
it's a signal to your brain that it's
time for bed
so make sure your feet are warm and cozy
and you're bound to drift off to sleep
faster
go outside fresh air works wonders for
your body and mind
it's even better when it's winter or
fall
then you'll be looking forward to
rushing back home and curling up in your
warm cozy bed
a cool room will make it easier for you
to drift off
scientists believe it's because your
body temperature
naturally drops at night it starts to
fall
shortly before bedtime adjust the
temperature in your room
so that it's not higher than 68 degrees
fahrenheit
have your breakfast for dinner such
foods as
eggs bananas and toast will help you to
get better sleep
bananas are filled with potassium that
will relax your muscles
eggs are rich in protein which is good
for sleep
and toast will help to control your
blood sugar
stretch before you go to bed it doesn't
have to be an attempt to do the splits
just something light and simple it'll
both relieve muscle tension
and make you tired enough to fall asleep
faster
create a ritual of your own nothing
complicated
it can be lighting a scented candle or
listening to your favorite song before
going to bed
your brain will start to associate it
with falling asleep
and your body will relax once you begin
this ritual
some people claim that rolling their
eyes helps them doze off in no time
this movement is similar to the one you
make while asleep
close your eyes and try to slow your
breathing down
then roll your eyes up and you'll feel
your body relax
before going to bed take a warm bath or
shower
it'll help you unwind and lower your
core temperature
for your brain it will be a signal to
get ready for bed